<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="about">
  <title>About</title>
   <shortdesc>The orange heart project mixes art and Dweb technology through a heart-centered perspective to explore addressing and resilience. 
  The gallery component presents stencil-based spray art on birchwood.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Yas Etessam</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Dweb</indexterm>
        <indexterm>IPFS</indexterm>
        <indexterm>decentralized technologies</indexterm>
        <indexterm>street art</indexterm>

      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
   <section><title></title>
    <p>Stencils create a form of visual consistency that builds upon itself through repeated reuse. </p>

    <p>A feature of decentralized technologies, such as IPFS, is replication.   Content is stored in mulitiple places all over the web, closest to where it is used.
      Which makes it resilient.    I've owned music which was banned and I know that even though those recordings were banned, there were copies
of them all over the world.   Decentralization works the same way.    Except you get the exact same copy of content. 

Outside of cyberspace, art degrade on any surface whether it is concrete or paper.
     Especially stencils, the more you reuse the stencil, the more paint it picks up and the image loses sharpness.
    </p>
    <p>The stencil isn't just reused, its repurposed.   The gallery show is a series of images created by the stencil, whereas the online component includes photographs of the world where the stencil acts as a frame. </p>
 </section>
</conbody>
</concept>
