<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="cids">
  <title>Content Addressing</title>
   <shortdesc>Content addressing identifiers provide provenance for digital assets.  Leveraging cryptographic hashing, assets are identified uniquely by their contents.    
  </shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Content Addressing Identifiers</indexterm>
        <indexterm>CID</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
<conbody>
<p>Content address identifiers (CID)s are derived by using an asset's cryptographic hash as its unique identifier.
</p>
 <p>You can take any type of digital asset, a string, an image, a document, an entire website and load into a cryptographic hash, or function, the result is a unique
 series of numbers and letters for this exact image. 
The hash is then used to construct a multi-hash starts with a self-describing metadata followed by the cryptographic hash of the data. 
</p>
<p>

For example, if we take this website's logo <!-- add logo --> and push it thorugh a hash, the result will be xxx. 

For a multi-hash CID, additional metadata is attached, but the key identifier is the content itself. 

If you even make a minor change to the file, something that isn't perceptible to the eye, that value will change. 

Or if it is a song, changing the recording in some way that's imperceptible to the ear, the CID will change.  It's not longer the original image or the original song, so it's now got a new identifier.

The constructed CID in the decentralized web can be used as the asset's location address.  

I can potentially share a link to this image and its quite possible that there are multiple copies of the same image on the dweb.  

All the links to this image are guaranteed to present you with the exact same, unaltered image since modifiying the image would change its CID.
</p>




  <p>Additionally, as this is a globally unique ID, if I request this image, it can be retrieved from multiple locations.  Ideally, the closest place to me. 
   Dweb dovetails nicely with edge AI and where data is stored and retrieved closer to the user.</p>
  <p>Finally, content's  authenticity can be easily verified by running the image through a hash and verifying that it is indeed the same image.</p>
  <p>CIDs are text-based, unique properties of the content object.</p>
   <p>The use case for the "most recent" version of an asset/resource/website is handled by using static namespace identifiers whose pointers can point to different CIDS over time. 
  Which means that Dweb can support the same functionality as Web 1.0.   
</p> 

<!--

<section><title>Try it out </title>
<ul>
 <li>View on an IPFS gateway </li>
 <li>Install IPFS and then use the following command:  
 </li>
 </ul>
</section>

-->

</conbody>
</concept>


