<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="ai_usage">
  <title>AI Usage</title>
  <shortdesc>Discover how Artificial Intelligence (AI) was used in this project.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>AI</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Content Conversion</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Messy Markdown</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>AI was an excellent learning partner and researcher on the Dweb stack.  Copilots were used for programming tasks such as 
prototyping, refactoring, rewriting existing functions, debugging and scanning through complex messages and logs.  
I authored most of the content and have indicated where content was written by Generative AI.
</p>
    <simpletable>
      <sthead>
        <stentry>Assistance Type</stentry>
        <stentry>Example(s)</stentry>
        <stentry>Technology</stentry>
      </sthead>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Learning and research partner </stentry>
        <stentry>
          <ul>
            <li>Provided concise summaries to help compare different dweb technologies
            </li>
            <li>Up-to-date knowledge on latest dweb technology </li>
            <li>Interactive learning partner when prompted with learning objectives
            </li>
          </ul>
        </stentry>
        <stentry>
             Open AI GPT-4o, GPT-3.5
        </stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Design</stentry>
        <stentry>
          <ul>
            <li>Vetted early stage designs and fed it the design document a few times and got feedback</li>
            <li>Use AI suggestions to get to 2 star Linked Data.</li>
            <li>Used the following prompts into DeepSeek-R3 to get a plugin design 
               <pre>1.  Add functionality to an content pipeline that is processing HTML5.   
                    2.  Plugins should be loaded once at startup.   
                    3.  Plugins will be static for now and should be able to use a properties file and environmental variables (for secrets).     
                        Don't need to validate the configurations right now.   
                    4.  Plugins must be self contained and have their own requirements.txt.   
                    5.  Plugins should only be able to run itself and code that lives in the commons folder.  
                        For changes in global state, I would only want them to be able to make a change to their calling object/parent (if necessary).   
                    6.  Error handling, let's use a continue model for the plugins.  Processing should continue if a plugin fails. 
                        Reuse existing .logger with the plugins.  
                    7.  Leave extensibility on the  table for now.   Load third party plugins from the local directory.  
                    8. Performance should be best practices.  
                    9. Security should follow best practices.  
                   10.   I do need a template for plugin development and we should use the ui feature as an example.
             </pre>
        </li>
      </ul>
        </stentry>
        <stentry>
             Open AI GPT-3.5, DeepSeek-V3, DeepSeek-R1.
        </stentry>
      </strow>
      
      <strow>
        <stentry>Programming</stentry>
        <stentry>
          <ul>
            <li>Troubleshooting error messages  </li>
            <li>Scanning build logs</li>
            <li>Used for prototyping Python and helped set up Github actions</li>

          </ul>
        </stentry>
        <stentry>
              Open AI GPT-4o,GPT-4, GPT-3.5, GitHub Copilot, Anthropic Claude 3.5 Sonnet, VS Code Copilot, Microsoft Copilot all performed well.
              Llama.  TBD: Gemma, Mistral, SmolLM2.
        </stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Content development</stentry>

        <stentry>
          <ul>
            <li>Formatting code and XML nesting </li>
            <li>Adding XML tagging with auto-complete in VS Code
            </li>
            <li>Spelling and grammar checking </li>
          </ul>
        </stentry>
        <stentry>
            Open AI GPT-4o, GitHub Copilot, VS Code Copilot      
        </stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>
  </conbody>
</concept>
