<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="bio">
  <title>Bio</title>
  <shortdesc>Biography
  </shortdesc>
  <conbody>
      <p>Yas Etessam (she/her) is a markup technologist.    She’s been coding since the 80’s and has expertise in digital content pipelines.</p>

      <p>While living in California, Yas had the privilege of collaborating with technology industry giants in semiconductor, enterprise software, cloud computing, networking, telecommunications, and artificial intelligence.   
      Recently, Yas has been focused on self-directed learning and travel.   
      
   
       Yas served as a Product Owner on an enterprise Content Pipeline team and chaired the applicable product information governance board.
        </p>
        <p>Darwin Information Typing Architecture (DITA) is the foundational standard for user-centric information architecture, as it is flexible and adaptable to change.  
 Yas notably contributed to DITA adoption with  colleagues who developed the first commercially available DITA editor, the XMetaL DITA Edition.

     A long time ago, she participated on the OASIS Technical Committee and is learning about the new DITA 2.0 features such as inclusions.  
    She  frequently shared her knowledge at industry events as well as in IBM Press' DITA Best Practices: A Roadmap for Writing, Editing, and Architecting in DITA.
    </p>

        <p>Currently, Yas is experimenting with integrating decentralized technologies with a DITA content pipeline.
        Yas loves travel, art, music, and dancing. </p>
      </section>
    </conbody>
  </concept>
