<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="orange-heart">
    <title>Orange Heart Project</title>
    <shortdesc>Orange heart project's online experiences present images viewed through an orange heart-shaped stencil and published to multiple nodes using decentralized technologies. The gallery component presents stencil-based spray art on birchwood.</shortdesc>
 
    <conbody>
    <section>
  <title>Orange Heart Project 2024 - Exploring the Concept of Addressing</title>

  <p>The "Orange Heart Project 2024" is an exploration of resilient dweb technologies through the mediums of photography and stencil-based art. This online photography exhibit uses the orange heart stencil as a central motif to investigate various forms of addressing—from physical landmarks to digital coordinates.</p>
  <p>This exhibit takes the stencil and showcases photos taken through this heart. 

  Thematically, it looks at various images and how they relate to the concept of addressing. The exhibit explores the content development lifecycle and the use of decentralized technologies like [IPFS](https://ipfs.io/) for content replication and authenticity verification. By leveraging IPFS, the project ensures faster and more reliable content delivery, as well as verifiable provenance. Tools like the [CID Inspector](https://cid.ipfs.tech/) can be used to confirm the integrity and originality of the images.</p>
  <p>By utilizing decentralized technologies like IPFS, the exhibit not only preserves the authenticity of these images but also experiments with using these emergent technologies, which support digital provenance and integrity. The gallery show features a series of similar orange heart images, all created using the same stencil and can of paint. These images are intentionally crafted to highlight the power of repetition and the subtle variations that emerge through the process. The uniformity of the orange hearts serves as a visual representation of stability and resilience.</p>
  <note>The Orange Heart project repurposes a heart-shaped stencil originally used in response to gun violence in San Francisco's Mission District in 2017.</note>
</section>
       
       <section><title>Artist Statement</title>
        <p>In Spring 2018, I first started stenciling hearts in San Francisco's Mission District.
        Red hearts were sprinkled around Capp Street between 21st and 22nd streets in response to gun violence on the block.

        I've been reusing and repurposing the same stencil for the last six years through life in the Mission, during my travels and on different mediums beyond concrete.
         
        </p>
        </section>
       <note>IPFS images use content addressing which is derived from taking the image itself and pushing it through a computation algorithm, known as a hash, that generates a unique identifier.
        This content identifier acts as the address of the image and ensures that the image is the original image that was uploaded and hasn't been modified in any way.</note>
        

    </conbody>
</concept>

