<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="ai_usage">
  <title>AI Usage</title>
  <shortdesc>Discover how Artificial Intelligence (AI) was used in this project.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>AI</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Content Conversion</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Messy Markdown</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>AI was an excellent learning partner and researcher on the Dweb stack.  Copilots prototyped and refactored code, helped debug, performed
code reviews and scanned error logs.  
</p>
    <simpletable>
      <sthead>
        <stentry>Assistance Type</stentry>
        <stentry>Example(s)</stentry>
        <stentry>Technology</stentry>
      </sthead>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Learning and research partner </stentry>
        <stentry>
          <ul>
            <li>Provided concise summaries to help compare different dweb technologies
            </li>
            <li>Up-to-date knowledge on latest dweb technology </li>
            <li>Interactive learning partner when prompted with learning objectives
            </li>
          </ul>
        </stentry>
        <stentry>
             Open AI GPT-4o, GPT-3.5
        </stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Design</stentry>
        <stentry>
          <ul>
            <li>Vetted early stage designs.  Fed the design document a few times and got feedback</li>
            <li>Used AI suggestions to get to 2 star Linked Data</li>
            <li>Coded the first abstract layer for the Plugin object by feeding in my existing code and the providing   <xref href="#prompts" format="dita">DeepSeek-R1 prompts</xref>.</li>
   
      </ul>
        </stentry>
        <stentry>
             Open AI GPT-3.5, DeepSeek-V3, DeepSeek-R1.
        </stentry>
      </strow>
      
      <strow>
        <stentry>Programming</stentry>
        <stentry>
          <ul>
            <li>Troubleshooting error messages  </li>
            <li>Scanning build logs</li>
            <li>Used for prototyping Python and helped set up Github actions</li>

          </ul>
        </stentry>
        <stentry>
              Open AI GPT-4o,GPT-4, GPT-3.5, GitHub Copilot, Anthropic Claude 3.5 Sonnet, VS Code Copilot, Microsoft Copilot all performed well.
              Llama.  TBD: Gemma, Mistral, SmolLM2.
        </stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>Content development</stentry>

        <stentry>
          <ul>
            <li>Formatting code and XML nesting </li>
            <li>Adding XML tagging with auto-complete in VS Code
            </li>
            <li>Spelling and grammar checking </li>
          </ul>
        </stentry>
        <stentry>
            Open AI GPT-4o, GitHub Copilot, VS Code Copilot     
        </stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>
  </conbody>
</concept>
