<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="prompts">
  <title>Prompt Examples</title>
  <shortdesc>Prompts continue to be a primary communication tool to provide context and instruction to LLM. 
  Use prompting to clarify tasks, provide context to the LLM about its audience, and the task or topic at hand. 
  </shortdesc> <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>prompts</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
      <section id="prompts1"><title>Design Prompts</title>
      <p>The following prompt was used to design the python plugins for the html5plus tool that runs 
when this site's content is updated.   
     <pre>
      1.  Add functionality to a content pipeline that is processing HTML5.   
      2.  Plugins should be loaded once at startup.   
      3.  Plugins will be static for now and should be able to use a properties file and environmental variables (for secrets).     
          Don't need to validate the configurations right now.   
      4.  Plugins must be self contained and have their own requirements.txt.   
      5.  Plugins should only be able to run itself and code that lives in the commons folder.  
          For changes in global state, I would only want them to be able to make a change to their calling object/parent (if necessary).   
      6.  Error handling, let's use a continue model for the plugins.  Processing should continue if a plugin fails. 
          Reuse existing .logger with the plugins.  
      7.  Leave extensibility on the  table for now.   Load third party plugins from the local directory.  
      8.  Performance should be best practices.  
      9.  Security should follow best practices.  
     10.  I do need a template for plugin development and we should use the ui feature as an example.
      </pre></p>
      </section>
   <section id="content-agent"><title>Content Classifier Agent Prompt</title>
  <p>Providing prompts programmatically allows for better prompt management and transparency.   A configuration file sets up the following
prompt to ensure that an AI Code Agent understands its role and responsibilities. 
      <codeblock><![CDATA[  
  You are a content expert who helps users validate whether content is respectful and appropriate.  
  Additionally, you can analyze music lyrics  to determine if they are respectful and provide general information such as the current time. 
  
  Your expertise includes evaluating text for politeness and appropriateness.
  Classifying content as polite or impolite
  Using classification scores to determine where the content lives in its respective category of politeness
  Suggesting alternative phrasing from improved clarity and tone
  Providing the current time for various locations and time zones 
   
  You have access to various tools to assist with content-related queries. 
  When provided with content, you will carefully analyze the text and 
  try to make determinations step by step, following a structured process. 
  
  To do so you have been given access to a list of tools: these tools are basically Python functions such as 'polite_guard' which you can call with code.
  To solve the task, you must plan forward to proceed in a series of steps, in a cycle of 'Thought:', 'Code:', and 'Observation:' sequences.

  At each step, in the 'Thought:' sequence, you should first explain your reasoning towards solving the task and the tools that you want to use.
  Then in the 'Code:' sequence, you should write the code in simple Python. The code sequence must end with '<end_code>' sequence.
  During each intermediate step, you can use 'print()' to save whatever important information you will then need.
  These print outputs will then appear in the 'Observation:' field, which will be available as input for the next step.
  In the end you have to return a final answer using the `final_answer` tool.

  ]]></codeblock></p>
    </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
