<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="captains-log">
  <title>Captain's Log</title>
  <shortdesc>Brief notes capturing technical progress, challenges, solutions and events.
  </shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <dl>
   <dlentry>
        <dt>Monday Jan 27, 2025</dt>
        <dd>Calling Algolia via crawler.yml on push to prod.
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
        <dt>Sun Jan 26, 2025</dt>
        <dd>
           The Graph lets developers publish subgraphs of their part of the block chain which makes it searchable. 
           It isn't the same use case as site search. 
           Publishing a subgraph could still be a good exercise.  TBD. https://thegraph.com/docs/en/subgraphs/developing/introduction/
           Looked at Meilisearch, but think I will stick with Algolia for now.  https://www.meilisearch.com/
        </dd>
      </dlentry>


   <dlentry>
        <dt>Wed Jan 22, 2025</dt>
        <dd>
         Want multi-level navbars so they are two levels deep. 
         Python script to add more Bulma classnames and changed the build.properties file for the DOT.
         

        </dd>
      </dlentry>
     <dlentry>
        <dt>Monday Jan 20, 2025</dt>
        <dd>
          Refactoring and cleanup activities. 
          Decided to reorg site into nested structures, so updated DITA map to use collection-type.
          Have to go back and reread the short descs to make sure that are descriptive enough for the Discover landing page.
          Fixed up workflows for maintainability and so that the names in the gui match the yml.
          Python cleanup.
    </dd>
      </dlentry>
      
     <dlentry>
        <dt>Thursday Jan 16, 2025</dt>
        <dd>
          Used Python to look at image metadata and then used exiftool to set metadata in test images. 
          Want to consider embedding metadata into image files in the pipeline vs delivering JSON file adjacent to the image.
          Logically, the only thing that you could really embed would be a IPNS since you obviously can't create an image, get the CID and then embed that CID into the file.  
          InterPlanetary Name System (IPNS) supports mutable pointers to IPFS nodes (immutable).
          <xref href="https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/ipns/#mutability-in-ipfs" scope="external" format="html"/>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Sunday Jan 12, 2025</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Here's a React live chat app from <xref href="https://github.com/feathercloud/chat" scope="external" format="html"/>
 .  
                     You do need to provide your email so that you can be sent a sign-in code to the chat. 

                     I was experimenting with publishing the app to IPFS (using Fleek) and added my own logo to the box, but the chat is the DWeb YVR chat group... so nerd alert :)  
          </p>
          <object outputclass="iframe" data="https://future-fall-deep.on-fleek.app" height="600px" width="600px">
          </object>
          <p>Worked on extending this chat at Dweb YVR event.  
            I contributed "like" functionality by extending the React chat's Typescript.   Updated the Message data type with David Luecke/daffl to ensure that the handlers were propertly chained together.
           Good chance I'll use FeatherCloud again since it just works.  Ditto for Automerge, as it took care of the merging and managing the data for the chat.             </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Saturday Jan 11, 2025</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>DWeb YVR threw a weekend event at Z-Space with old and new Dweb folks.   
          Friendly folks and Boris M even cooked brekkie.. super treat!   At least two other people travelled from the islands and everybody got to play around with Feathers Cloud and Automerge to build real-time apps without the Cloud.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>

      <dlentry>
        <dt>Aug 15, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Reading the Future Proof the Truth slides by Jack Fox Keen.  ProofMode app creates legally admissable content that gathers multiple forms of metadata, which is obviously better than capturing no metadata. 

            <ul>
              <li>Coalition for Content Provenance and
    Authenticity -  C2PA is the technical standard that allows people to determine the origin and edits of different media
    types. 
              </li>
              <li> Content Authenticity Initiative - CAI  A global community advancing the C2PAstandards
              </li>
              <li>Content Credentials - Verifiable metadata following the C2PA standard
        for tracing media creation and changes
              </li>
            </ul>
Impressive in terms of change tracking, and that you're able verify against IPFS using CIDss.
AI changes the game as phones introduce features that use AI manipulation of photos, then that creates an issue with the burden of proof.  
          </p>
          <p>UC Santa Cruz has an AIEA (Artificial Intelligence Explainability and Accountability) Lab.
            <note>XAI is a TLA for eXplainable Artificial Intelligence.   XAI is a pre-req for accountability of AI systems.  
            </note>
Verifiable data is reliable data.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>

      <dlentry>
        <dt>Aug 13, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Adding javascript for redirect.</p>
          <p></p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Aug 3, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Adding logging_ohp.py that uses logaru for logging.</p>
          <p>Remove unused scripts and update main/modules to use INFO/DEBUG/ERROR level messages. </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>

      <dlentry>
        <dt>Thursday Aug 1, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Content updates and working out gallery problems.</p>

          <p>One issue is that we're not explicity surfacing content addressing.  If the CID is is derived from taking the image itself and pushing it through a computation algorithm, known as a hash, that generates a unique identifier.  However, its not visible in this browser and how would the user know?
                   If we do expose the CIDs for the gallery images, those content identifier act as the address of the image and ensures that the image is the original image that was uploaded and hasn't been modified in any way.
I suppose we could view the images in IPFS. </p>
          <p>How do you get metrics to determine whether this is faster and more reliable content delivery? 
 Tools like the <xref href="https://cid.ipfs.tech/" scope="external">CID Inspector</xref> can be used to confirm the integrity and originality of the images.</p>

        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Wed July 31, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Adding Bulma CSS to the resources and copy it over in Python.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Saturday July 27, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Adding more content to the gallery page and moving unused images.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Thursday July 18, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Revert changes on the index page.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Wed July 17, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Added functionality to dynamically style the landing page</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Tuesday July 16, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Start working on gallery</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Monday July 15, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Refactor the update_head() code to make it more modular. </p>
          <p>Assess project: Fleek has deployed the site onto IPFS (InterPlanetary File System).  That is already a decentralized storage protocol that enables the creation, distribution, and retrieval of data in a peer-to-peer (P2P) network.
                    In terms of search, might want to add a search box and try out IPFS based search.   
          </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>

      <dlentry>
        <dt>Friday July 12, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Update Python to use CSS selectors to get better styles on the output. </p>
          <p>Promote from dev to stage and add manual workflow job</p>
          <p>
            <codeblock>  
            024-07-12T22:20:34.718Z: Deploy started
2024-07-12T22:20:39.240Z: Docker image: 'node:slim'
2024-07-12T22:20:39.240Z: Build command: ''
2024-07-12T22:20:39.240Z: Triggering build execution...
2024-07-12T22:21:09.654Z: Deployed to IPFS and got the hash:
2024-07-12T22:21:09.654Z: QmczM4XheVhvx6qEW7H4rkzW921WZBt22VB4rufq1cEoik
2024-07-12T22:21:09.654Z: Checking content availability on IPFS...
2024-07-12T22:21:11.676Z: You can preview this build on :
2024-07-12T22:21:11.676Z: https://bafybeigzvo53gll6xbdr2uoja3ientn3vtbfm4oaovbu5ozwprb6uyxieu.on.fleek.co

            </codeblock>
          </p>
        </dd>

      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Thursday July 11, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Add Python to change the figgroup to a picture element, used with responsive image handling.  
          </p>
        </dd>

      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Tuesday July 9, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Resize some images to desktop/mobile/tablet, export to PNG and use TinyPNG to compress the file size.
          </p>
        </dd>

      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Thursday July 11, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Saved the black heart hero image as SVG and added some basic Dublin Core metadata to the image.
                   

          </p>
        </dd>

      </dlentry>

      <dlentry>
        <dt>Thursday July 4, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Saved the black heart hero image as SVG and added some basic Dublin Core metadata to the image.
                   

          </p>
        </dd>

      </dlentry>

      <dlentry>
        <dt>Monday July 1, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>CSS doesn't support remapping so I did end up using Python.  Setting up a data structure to remap by element name.
It could also be easily extended to remap by class name.  For now, stick to element name remapping. 


          </p>
        </dd>

      </dlentry>

      <dlentry>
        <dt>Friday June 28th, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p> CSS supports re-mapping!  Consider removing the python processing and doing class-based remapping in custom.css.
            <codeblock outputclass="language-html">
                        /* Remap .dt.dlterm to Bulma's has-text-weight-bold class */
                        .dt.dlterm {
                            @extend .has-text-weight-bold;
                        }
            </codeblock>
          </p>
        </dd>

      </dlentry>

      <dlentry>
        <dt>Thursday June 27th, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Switched to local dev and testing to make sure that DITA OT builds work as expected locally, same thing with Python.
          </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>

      <dlentry>
        <dt>Wednesday June 27th, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Met with the co-educators and our team. Very supportive environment and heaps of wow moments with the feedback sessions.</p>
          <p>Built a job to check out the dev branch and move the output from the DITA OT into dev after processing it with Python so that it contains sufficient CSS selectors for Bulma. Pondering extending the HTML or bootstrap DITA OT plug-ins.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Tuesday June 25th, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Priming more birchwood and prototyped using Krylon clear spray on top of Sharpie Oil (fail), a regular Sharpie was fine! Smudging is an issue. Also prepared the background for the 16 x 20 piece, glued it down, waited 24 hours and then need to spray it with the fixative. Then wait another 24 hours to apply the stencil.</p>
          <p>Places where nobody will bother you about spray paint in Strathcona are filled with people living in cars.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Monday June 24th, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Directed the contents of the DITA OT logs to the Summary box in Github Actions.</p>
          <p>Testing with DITA properties and trying to get the CSS auto-applied to the external CDN.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Sunday June 23rd, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Github Actions and priming and testing 5x5s.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Sat June 22, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>I've been getting these wooden birchwood boxes to do real-life art. Having to prime them and pull together supplies.</p>
          <p>I've done a few prototypes which didn't work out and then I primed again. Currently, still concerned that the Krylon matte fixative makes inks bleed including the Sharpie black oil ink. Went back to 'regular' Sharpie and still need to test the fixative. Finished the background for the 16 x 20 piece.</p>
          <p>Working on Github to source the content in DITA XML so that we can leverage DITA's link management. Created a dita branch on Github that takes the XML files, pushes them through the HTML5 transform in the latest version of the DITA Open Toolkit and then checks in the content to the out folder.</p>
          <p>Seems like it's going to be more efficient to generate this HTML here.</p>
          <p>To do: push the HTML5 to a dev branch where I could have Beautiful Soup run through and make any other changes that are needed. Then when that's done, move to staging and then move to prod.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Sunday June 16, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Getting a Fleek account. I chose to authenticate through Ethereum, specifically with Metamask. Metamask gives you some contextual warning about being careful with Web 3 dapps.</p>
          <p>Set up an initial deployment yetessam/orange-heart-image-addressing (branch: prod) and selected src as the Publish directory. Published at 10:01 AM to <xref href="https://delicate-glitter-6121.on.fleek.co/" scope="external"/>
.</p>
          <p>Locally ran python -m http.server 8000 so that we can verify that the markdown is loaded locally, checked developer console and made adjustments until we had zero errors in the console.</p>
          <p>Pushed changes to design branch.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Friday June 15th, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Prepped with Krylon matte transparent fixative on two 5 x 7 birchwood panels. Made in Canada.</p>
          <p>Selected a Bulma for a modern CSS framework.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Wed June 13th, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Create mockups for physical layout for gallery wall space. Took first draft photographs of the art pieces and then loaded them into a new Miro board to create a 2D diagram of the physical gallery space. Scaling the images down to onto the Miro grid to result in a maximum wall width of 3 feet. Will need to pad everything by several inches to accommodate frames.</p>
          <p>Design branch on Git holds the current set of draft images.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Tuesday June 12th, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Updates to design doc.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Monday June 11th, 2024</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Today’s decisions: start with Fleek, don’t recreate the wheel when it comes to CSS, and start with RDF/XML. Stick some images into IPFS and then sign up for Fleek as my IPFS Gateway. Should I use RDF vs Property DBs? Asked Chat GPT for a series of options for hosting. Fleek is Web 3 friendly and I can also store my content on Github and publish that way, which opens up the content to multiple contributors.</p>
          <p>Created a Github Repo <xref href="https://github.com/yetessam/orange-heart-image-addressing" scope="external" format="html"/>.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
  </conbody>
</concept>
